see static the heart of your system
hi and welcome to the AMD Thurber 3960 X
deleting and also hopefully if it works
out direct I video in one of my last
videos we were talking about the 30 960
X retail CPU the one I bought and the
reason because I or the reason why I
bought a 39 60 X 24 core and not a 32
core was mainly the price because I was
going to do the living and also if we
works out the direct I the potential of
damaging the CPU I think is high that's
why I went for it 24 core so if
something goes wrong we only wasted
about 1500 euro which is still quite a
lot on my table we currently have the
Strix TRX for the gaming which we're
going to use in today's test in
combination with the water cool heat
killer CPU cooler that's already mounted
on the CPU everything is stock at a
moment thermal paste is carnold extreme
we will test this bundle quickly set it
up just to get some reference values may
be like Cinebench and see what the
temperature looks like stock
temperature measurement will be kind of
a challenge mainly because we have so
many different dice on the CPU and I'm
not really sure at which location they
are tracking the temperature and how
this will be affected from direct I
could be that for example die right die
three dies have pretty good contact
temperatures are lower and one has bad
contact and in temperatures are read
higher I have no idea we will see how it
works out
but let's first assemble this system and
get some reference values set up is
pretty much assembled so far this is
ready to go we have a 360 custom water
cooling in the back with an ek a pump
reservoir combination on here we're
going to use those Quick Connect
fittings and by the way those are from
bit spore because in one of my previous
videos a lot of people asked what kind
of fittings I was using I think it was
in the a stroke X 570 video just put
them on the block
oops looks like that was still a little
bit of water inside alright obviously it
didn't fit because both feelings are too
wide diameter too big
that's why didn't fit
so I had to add this extension it's not
beautiful but it will work as you can
see the 39 60 X is now overclocked to
4.3 gigahertz across all cores which you
can see here running about 1.4 V core so
that's a pretty heavy OC 439 60 X across
all the course and yeah really much
power consumption as you could see in my
previous review we're now going to
perform a cinnamon or 20 run for our
reference to get some temperature
reference values for comparison reasons
afterwards
in case the CPU arrives to the living we
can see the temperature rams up quite
quickly in the German version we just
had a peak temperature of 85 point one
degrees Celsius now we can see it's 86
sorts now eighty six point five so it's
about one point five degree more than in
a German one which is kind of obvious
because we just did this as the second
run and therefore the water temperatures
may be slightly higher but we will stick
to the reference number from the German
video because it was the original run
with 85 degree Celsius that's going to
be our reference next step is deleting
and for this we will first cut with the
razor blade around the IHS simply to
loosen the glue between IHS and PCB will
make the leading in the end a little bit
easier we're going to use this self-made
the lead I made which we build for I
think it was like epic or the first
generation third Ripper but physically
it's still the same CPU so it still fits
we will put the CPU on here and put it
inside the oven at like 160 170 degree
Celsius simply to make sure that the
indium solder between and piece B or the
chips and the IHS is getting soft and
smelting will make deleting much easier
especially once the glue is also removed
or the connection of the glue is removed
between
IHS and PCB
[Music]
now putting the CPU inside the de litter
we will put this whole thing into the
oven for like 20 minutes
luckily for you it will be only 10
seconds while we are waiting for the CPU
to be ready for the leading we're going
to take a quick look at the cooler and
also at the mainboard because this is
also very a crucial part I think when it
comes to direct I first of all we had to
pick a cooler that is really flat on the
bottom that's why I picked the water
cool heat killer it's really really flat
none of the screws are sending out we
also have quite big holes right here
which are not colliding with the
mounting holes on the socket and the
socket is also a part that's going to be
quite problematic we will have to remove
both of those frames and not only the
frames but also the whole mechanism
that's sitting at the bottom because all
of this is too high the CPU or the cores
themselves will not sit much higher than
the plastic frame here on the corner so
everything that's really higher than
this will collide with the CPU cooler
and that's going to be a problem that's
why we'll have to completely remove this
somehow first step remove those four
screws on the corner of the socket and
remove this frame
[Applause]
[Music]
the ilm looks to be welded together like
at this point and this point looks like
it's welded I think we're going to try
to remove the springs first and then try
to get rid of those bolts inside here
kind of remove those frames somehow
figure out there are some I have no clue
how this is called in English really but
it's securing the bolt inside the spring
and the frame removed both of them on
both sides now I can remove this part
right here so far so good
unfortunately yeah this part is still
welded means that we have to remove
those with a drama because you can see
if we put water cooler on here this is
going to collide
[Music]
frame is ready to go it's not beautiful
here but yeah it will work I don't even
know in general if it's going to work
because the mounting pressure which we
will need to push the CPU into the
socket is really insane and using that
this without i LM not sure if it's going
to work in general so quick and dirty
deleting seems really simple on the
first push I it has already moved yeah
that's really good you can see it's
still warm and indium solder is still
soft you can see this very massive IO
die in the middle and then four
individual dies on the corner with eight
cores each so 32 cores in total now
quickly cleaning the CPU from the indium
so all the residues pretty impressive
CPU I really have to admit that just
looking at this you can see that iota in
the center surrounded by the four chips
that contain the course and yeah if we
compare it to the 39 90 X that's coming
out sooner or later not sure when it
will come out and I think we saw some
pictures that were released by AMD quite
a while ago and yeah this one is missing
the for additional chips I hope you can
see it in the camera if you look at this
area and this area next to the chips it
looks like those areas were prepared for
additional chips in future obviously
could be that the base design of this
CPU is the same as for the 64 core and
therefore you can see kind of prepared
solder pads underneath for the first
test we will just use conventional
thermal paste quickly putting the CPU
inside the socket the thing is if we put
a water cooler on here we will only have
pressure in the center and it's very
likely that even though this PCB is
really thick that the pressure on
especially like the corners will not be
enough for the system to have yeah
proper contact especially with all the
DIMM slots and everything could be that
the bad contact leads to that the system
will not power on that's why we'll just
use some conventional thermal paste
quickly and see if it pours on
system is set up ready to go
pretty much minimal configuration we
have one VGA we have one memory stick
nothing else
one nvme drive that was already sitting
on the board yeah postcode led is
already showing some code so that's
quite promising let's see if this thing
is going to boot up very in BIOS I'm
really surprised it's 44 degrees Celsius
on the CPU core which is fine 4.3
gigahertz one point four volts so that's
totally fine regarding that we have only
conventional thermal paste it's only one
dim which I think should be fine I will
reassemble everything with liquid matte
fill and putting in four memory sticks
and we will try to get two windows
because Roman doesn't know how to apply
thermal paste I will take over
[Music]
[Applause]
looks good
CPU goes back into the socket including
the four dims moaning the waterblock
again and let's see how the temperatures
will be unfortunately so far not that
great everything is working fine I mean
all the dims are there and CPU is
working fine so mounting pressure wise
seems okay unfortunately you can see I'm
running cinema tour 15 and only
single-threaded loads and already there
I have a peak temperature of like 90 to
92 degrees Celsius which is 7 degree
more than before and we're running only
one threat instead of 48 threats yeah
not that great I think I will just mount
the CPU again maybe add a little bit
more liquid metal which is usually not
that great because if it's too much it's
like squeezing out on the side but we
will just remount and see if it helps
ok attempt number three already
I just remounted three times the first
time I had zero zero on debug LED I was
like oh did I kill the CPU second time I
had like memory issues so one of the
memory demons was not Karem detected
correctly which is typically an
indicator that the monitoring pressure
is not there remounted the third time
everything was putting fine we're now in
Windows by yeah mounting three times you
can see I already passed the image or 20
once temperature is now going to like 83
84 85 yeah
towards 86 which is pretty much the same
what we had stock and I think this is
related to the fact that we have not
enough mounting pressure which is also
probably also why we had those boot
issues like zero zero and memory
detection problems yeah so we will work
on mounting pressure but that would be
too much for this video I have to
go to workshop and modify the cooler
probably I already have an idea in mind
how to work on this and how to improve
it but yeah I think we're getting there
it's quite cool that we can in theory do
direct ion rise in a three thousand
thread Ripper which is something we
couldn't do in a previous one and also
not on the typical ricin like 3950 eggs
so that's something really cool we can
do but I think we still have to work on
this and maybe increase mounting
pressure and test again thanks for
tuning in and see you next time
[Music]
you